---
title: Passionate Programmer2
date: 2013-02-11 09:00 -07:00
---

What is the over-arching message of The Passionate Programmer?

The Passionate Programmer is about informing programmers about the importance of things that are ostensibly not directly related to programming.  The overarching message is that these things- such as understanding the industry you're in or not getting too dependent on one technology- are things that need to be paid attention to if one wants to have a successful career.  The book reads like a series of letters that are rooted in Chad's personal experiences.  He is reflecting back to help programmers live as fulfilled a career as they can.  He discusses how a lot of progammers tend to gravitate toward focusing on coding and solitude.  Fowler builds this illustration of the typical programmer as someone who likes to be left alone to do his or her individual work.  If there is any message in this book, it's that as a programmer you are a part of something larger: a changing landscape where technologies are constantly evolving, business departments are interacting and trying to cohesively solve problems, and programmers are doing their best to build great products and ultimately great lives.  To achieve success in this environment an understanding of how you fit in is crucial.

What lessons from the book can you apply to your work in our program?

This book makes me want to ask more questions in class about larger themes that we're learning about.  The Passionate Programmer is filled with actioanble steps to integrate some of the points into your life.  Doing research on my own about industry trends and then coming into school and discussing them seems to be a good place to start.  Also, the book discusses things like mentorship and publishing your work and your thought so that people can see what you think and who you are as a programmer.  Programmers seem to network in slightly different ways than business people.  For programmers, your skill seems much more verifiable with the actual projects you contribute to and the skillset seems to produce a much more tangible ability to have side projects that can prove your worth. I want to make sure I go to as many meet ups as possible while here and I want to take advantage of the different mentors we have at school.

I think gSchool does a great job of focusing on things that will be open for our future employers to see such as open source contribution and blogging, but it is good to keep in mind why we should be doing these things and The Passionate Programmer laid down a persuasive argument for purusing these channels to their fullest extent.

Soon you'll be trying to evaluate companies  and deciding if they're the right fit for you.  What are some aspects tied to the book that you'll look for in their style and culture?

The book definitely highlights the problems that can be found in working for large organizations.  When it comes to developing interesting products, dealing with bureaucracies can be difficult and they can slow down projects. According to Fowler, this seems to come from unnecessary procedures and from teams inside organizations not being able to communicate with other teams.  There also seems to be inertia that develops when a company gets successful at one thing that makes it difficult to pivot and make necessary changes, so I will definitely be wary of companies that work like that.  I think it'll be important to look for strong team structure and company values. Companies that are focused on innovation and being on the bleeding edge seem to be easy to differentiate form those that aren't.  I was listening to the Ruby Rogues podcast and they discussed how Github as a company has roughly 150 employees and that no one has left the company yet.  That seems to be like a pretty large tech company, but they seem to still have interesting work that makes people stay.  I want to look for that in a comapny.
