---
title: Weekly Retrospective
date: 2013-03-22 09:20 -07:00
tags: 
---

It's hard to believe that we're a third of the way through the course.  We've been learning so many new things that it's gone by very fast, and  the result of learning so many new things has left me feeling like a real developer.  There are plenty of things that I struggle with, but the way I'm starting to approach solving problems with programming makes me think that I'm getting better without even really realizing it.  Besides these weekly retrospectives it's hard to take a step back while you're in the midst of creating projects and learning.  Are we really a third of the way through?  

I LIKE RAILS.  I accidentally hit caps lock but I think that was a Freudian slip. I really enjoy all the different functionality that Rails provides and I like how it seems like a productive move for the future with building web applications.  I'm still in a stage of wonder over all the things that I no longer have to do now that we've switched from Ruby backends to Active Record.  It feels like we have the proper tools to do a much better job because we are able to focus our attention on the product more than the functionality of the database in the background.  It seems like a great example of what computer programs are good for: taking mundane, often repeated steps and consolidating them into software that more or less automates the step for you.  I think in the long term and the short term Rails is going to be the way to go.

My favorite part of the week was having the time to go through Blogger and being able to familiarize myself with Rails.  There's a lot to get through if I want to get proficient and I'm glad I had some sort of head start.  My least favorite part of this week was probably getting pulled out of the GitHub talk to take an assessment- it was a really interesting and useful talk.

If I could schedule one person to come in and talk with the class it would be someone who worked in the early stages at a company that was built on Rails.  It would be awesome if we could get someone from the early days of Twitter or Groupon who could talk a little bit about what it was like to be a tech guy at the early stages of a company that has now proved itself.  I'm interested in knowing what it's like as a technical person when a company is in such a growth stage- how you prioritize, how you communicate with the other non-technical people to manage expectations, how you manage expectations of investors and customers.  From talking with Ben yesterday (which was also a highlight of the week), it seems like building out ideas is largely about going slowly and testing ideas before you dedicate a ton of work into something that doesn't work.  I would really like to know how that works in a company where your own success lives and dies with your ability to make the right choices and sync with your non-technical colleagues is so crucial.    