We just wrapped up working on Event Reporter which was a project that was built on top of our previous two projects, Micro Blogger and Event Manager.  In this project we were parsing through the save .csv file that we used in Event Manager and returning results based on input from a user.  This project was assessed based on its ability to follow explicit steps that Jeff had laid out beforehand.  The project required the programmer to create different reponses to different prompts from the user and the resulting program was laid out a lot like a decision tree.  We had to create different methods to respond properly to the question that was being asked.  In some instances we had to manipulate the data in order to present it properly to the user and in some cases we had to focus on presenting the data to the user in a way that was easy to understand.  

The file itself consisted of names from a registry and the information associated with their name: their address, phone number, email etc. and it was our job to make the thousands of records in the file searchable.  

My personal work pattern for this product got in the way of me being able to complete the project fully.  While I put in an incredible amount of hours and effort into the project, and while I got most of it done, I wasn't able to finish it because of how I prioritized my time.  The programming concepts were challenging, but there wasn't anything that was too challenging.  The problem was the way that I went about programming the assignment.  I wasn't as methodical as I should have been.  In other words, I should have broken down the pieces better and tested more frequently. I also should have coded in smaller chunks that focused specifically on what we were going to be graded by.  I worked pretty much from the end of class until 1-2 am on Tuesday and Wednesday.  I didn't d enough planning on Monday to work out what I'd need to do and next time I'll probably set milestones for what I hope to accomplish when.  I asked for help a lot, but it felt like the errors I was getting from trying to do too much at once frustrated me more and wasted more of my question time.  I struggled with formatting issues, grasping objects interacting among methods and classes and styling of my code.  I want to focus on all of those things in the future.

In summary, I liked the project, but I plan to do almost everything differently next time. 
1) I want to have an idea of what I'll be working on before hand when I plan so that I know when to ask questions.  If I break up my goals better in to smaller parts, then I can work toward them in a more efficient manner.  
2) Also, if I can break down the programming itself into one method at a time- building out from the center I really think I would get significantly less errors and it would help me move faster.
3) If I start with what the program is asking of me and not what I think a certain function should look like, I'll create a better program for the end user.  That's what's most important and I definitely learned my lesson from the assessment afterward
4) I also want to review the fundamentals of ruby before our next program on Monday.  I think being more comfortable and not letting the syntax or programming style get in my way would make solving the actual problems with the program more managable.

My code for the project can be found at: https://github.com/pnblackwell/event_reporter
